[Concept Entry] AI Simulated Annealing #2019 (#2302)
Codecademy/docs: content/ai/concepts/search-algorithms/terms/simulated-annealing/simulated-annealing.md

---
Title: 'Simulated Annealing'

> Description: 'An optimization algorithm, used to solve an optimization problems which can contain many different solutions. Each solution has a different score & the goal of the algorithm is to find the best score.'

Author: done

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Search Algorithms'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'AI'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/machine-learning-ai-engineering-foundations'
---

> **Simulated Annealing** An optimization algorithm, used to solve an optimization problems which can contain many different solutions by the process of slowly decreasing the probability of accepting worse solutions as the vast solution space is explored. Each solution has a different score and the goal of the algorithm is to find the best score over the course of the search.

Author: done

> **Simulated Annealing** An optimization algorithm, used to solve an optimization problems which can contain many different solutions (by the process of slowly decreasing the probability of accepting worse solutions as the vast solution space is explored). Each solution has a different score & the goal of the algorithm is to find the best score over the course of the experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Simulated Annealing** An optimization algorithm, used to solve an optimization problems which can contain many different solutions by the process of slowly decreasing the probability of accepting worse solutions as the vast solution space is explored. Each solution has a different score and the goal of the algorithm is to find the best score over the course of the search.
```

Author: done

> ## The Method Of Simulated Annealing

Author: done

> ## Describe The Method Of Simulated Annealing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Method Of Simulated Annealing

```

Author: done

> - Simulated annealing creates a trial point randomly then the algorithm selects the distance between the current point and the trial point by a probability distribution.

Author: done

> - The Simulated Annealing formula then determines if the new point is better than the older point or not. If the new point is better, it is made as a next point, but if the new point is worse, it can still be accepted depending on the acceptance function.

Author: done

> - The annealing parameters are set, raising and reducing the temperatures (the scale of such distribution from point to point) for lowering values. The simulated annealing is concluded when it reaches the lowest minima or hits a certain stopping criteria.

Author: done

> ## It's Relation To AI

Author: done

> ## Describe It's Relation To AI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## It's Relation To AI

```

Author: done

> - Simulated annealing uses machine learning to constantly improve itself based on an algorithm which tests various points over and over to find the lowest minima. This is done via a similar process called physical annealing, the process through which a material is heated till the annealing temperature and then cooled down for the desired structure formation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Simulated annealing is a probabilistic algorithm which tests points across a solution space to find the lowest minima. The algorithm is termed "simulated annealing" because it mirrors the process of physical annealing, a process in which a material is repeatedly heated and cooled to elicit desired structural properties.
```

Author: done
